OSDOCS-12095: adding autorecover from manual backups (#84216)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/microshift-restoring-backups.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * microshift/microshift-auto-recover-manual-backup.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-restoring-backups_{context}"]
= Restoring backups

> Backups can be restored after updates or after other system events that remove or damage required data.

Reviewer: I'm not sure about "restoring after updates".
If MicroShift is updated to newer version, technically there's no backup matching the version of the data yet.

Author: removed

Use the following procedure to restore backups.

.Prerequisites

.Procedure

> . Restore backup from the parent directory by running the following command:

Reviewer: Same thing as in comment regarding backup: I'd drop the notion of "parent directory" as it's relative and might be confusing.

Author: done

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ sudo microshift restore --auto-recovery _<path_of_parent_directory>_ <1>
----
<1> Replace `_<path_of_parent_directory>_` with the path of the parent directory which contains the auto-recovery file. For example, `/var/lib/microshift-auto-recovery`.
+
[NOTE]
====

> The `--auto-recovery` option copies the {microshift-short} data to /var/lib/microshift-auto-recovery/failed/ for later investigation, selects the most recent, version-matching backup and restores it.

Reviewer: I would mention `--dont-save-failed`

Author: I have added

??? I1104 09:19:28.662521    8950 atomic_dir_copy.go:115] "Renamed to final destination" src="/var/lib/microshift-auto-recovery/failed/20241104091928_default-b3442053c9ce69310cd54140d8d592234c5306e4c5132de6efe615f79c84300a.1.tmp.22742" dest="/var/lib/microshift-auto-recovery/failed/20241104091928_default-b3442053c9ce69310cd54140d8d592234c5306e4c5132de6efe615f79c84300a.1"
??? I1104 09:19:28.662969    8950 atomic_dir_copy.go:115] "Renamed to final destination" src="/var/lib/microshift-auto-recovery/20241022101528_default-a129624b9233fa54fe3574f1aa211bc2d85e1052b52245fe7d83f10c2f6d28e3.0" dest="/var/lib/microshift-auto-recovery/restored/20241022101528_default-a129624b9233fa54fe3574f1aa211bc2d85e1052b52245fe7d83f10c2f6d28e3.0"
??? I1104 09:19:28.662983    8950 restore.go:141] "Auto-recovery restore completed".
----
+
[NOTE]
====
* The `sudo microshift restore --auto-recovery _<path_of_parent_directory>_` command does not start {microshift-short} after restoring. When this command is executed, {microshift-short} service has already failed or you need to stop it.

> * {microshift-short} does not monitor the disk space of any filesystem. You need to ensure their automation handles old backup removal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* {microshift-short} does not monitor the disk space of any filesystem. You need to ensure your automation handles old backup removal.
```

Author: done

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * microshift/microshift-auto-recover-manual-backup.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-restoring-backups_{context}"]

> = Restoring backups

Author: done

> Backups can be restored after system events that remove or damage required data.

Author: done

> Use the following procedure to restore backups.

Author: modified

.Prerequisites

> * {microshift-short} must be stopped.

Author: done

> You can use the following procedure to restore backups.

Reviewer 2: Not a huge deal but it might sound stronger if you removed "you can" from the beginning:
```suggestion
Use the following procedure to restore backups.
```

Author: done

.Procedure

> . Restore backup from the directory that stores backups by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Restore the backup from the directory where the backup is located by running the following command:
```

Author: done

> . Restore the backup from the directory in which the backups are stored by running the following command:

Author: done

> . Restore the backup from the directory in which you have stored the backups by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Restore the backup from the directory in which you have stored the backups by running the following command:
```

Author: done

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ sudo microshift restore --auto-recovery _<path_of_directory>_ <1>

Reviewer 2: Same issue with the italics not rendering

Author: done

----

> <1> Replace `_<path_of_directory>_` with the path of the directory that stores backups. For example, `/var/lib/microshift-auto-recovery`.

Author: same as above comment

+
[NOTE]
====

> The `--auto-recovery` option copies the {microshift-short} data to /var/lib/microshift-auto-recovery/failed/ for later investigation, selects the most recent, version-matching backup and restores it.

Author: done

> The `--dont-save-failed` option disables backing up failed {microshift-short} data.

Author: done

====
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ sudo microshift restore --auto-recovery /var/lib/microshift-auto-recovery

Reviewer 2: Same comment about removing the actual command from example output:
```suggestion
```

Author: done

??? I1104 09:19:28.662438    8950 atomic_dir_copy.go:115] "Renamed to final destination" src="/var/lib/microshift.tmp.482" dest="/var/lib/microshift"
??? I1104 09:19:28.662451    8950 state.go:46] "Moving state file to final path" intermediatePath="/var/lib/microshift-auto-recovery/state.json.tmp.41544" finalPath="/var/lib/microshift-auto-recovery/state.json"
??? I1104 09:19:28.662521    8950 atomic_dir_copy.go:115] "Renamed to final destination" src="/var/lib/microshift-auto-recovery/failed/20241104091928_default-b3442053c9ce69310cd54140d8d592234c5306e4c5132de6efe615f79c84300a.1.tmp.22742" dest="/var/lib/microshift-auto-recovery/failed/20241104091928_default-b3442053c9ce69310cd54140d8d592234c5306e4c5132de6efe615f79c84300a.1"
??? I1104 09:19:28.662969    8950 atomic_dir_copy.go:115] "Renamed to final destination" src="/var/lib/microshift-auto-recovery/20241022101528_default-a129624b9233fa54fe3574f1aa211bc2d85e1052b52245fe7d83f10c2f6d28e3.0" dest="/var/lib/microshift-auto-recovery/restored/20241022101528_default-a129624b9233fa54fe3574f1aa211bc2d85e1052b52245fe7d83f10c2f6d28e3.0"
??? I1104 09:19:28.662983    8950 restore.go:141] "Auto-recovery restore completed".
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> * The `sudo microshift restore --auto-recovery _<path_of_directory>_` command does not start {microshift-short} after restoring. When this command is executed, {microshift-short} service has already failed or you need to stop it.

Author: done

* {microshift-short} does not monitor the disk space of any filesystem. You need to ensure your automation handles old backup removal.
====

.Verification

> * When you start {microshift-short}, it must not fail.

Author: done
